A FORTRAN90 Program to solve below question

1. Computer programs for analyzing distributions (10 points): We discussed the coin toss
experiment in class. There is an interesting question that we can ask regarding computer al-
gorithms. Can we have a computer algorithm that produces a random number ? The answer
to that question is “NO”. The reason is that whatever operation or series of operations the
computer uses, it will ensure that the number generated is not really random. But there are
many complicated functions one can use to generate outputs that look completely random. Such
algorithms are called pseudorandom number generators and they are a part of all major program-
ming languages these days. Mathematica has a few random number generators like RandomReal,
RandomInteger, etc. Learn to use these functions and write a simple program to accomplish the
following:
(a) Write a program for simulating a coin toss. i.e.the output should be one of two outcomes at
random, such that, for a large number of trials we get equal amounts of the two outcomes.
For clarity let the two outcomes be the numbers 0 and 1. You can use the built in random
number generators of mathematica or any other programming language that you wish to
use.
(b) Write a program for generating N coin tosses where N = 4, 10, 20, 100
N
(c) Let xi = 1 if heads, and xi = 0 if tails. Calculate the average value of x given by
 i=1
 xi /N
for each of the sets of tosses above.
(d) Now let N = 4. Generate sets of N random numbers 100 times. Make a frequency chart by
plotting how many times x lies in the intervals 0 − 0.1, 0.1 − 0.2, .. 0.9 − 1.0. Repeat for
N = 10, 20, and 100. In each case, take the size of the intervals as 1/N .
(e) Do you see a peak in the distribution of x as N becomes large ? Does this resemble a
Gaussian distribution ? Does this follow Central Limit Theorem ?
In this program you may have to use some control statements like do loops, while statements, if
statements. Learn these in Mathematica(or any other language) so you can write simple programs
like this and other problems.

